Hello, Tre...
Their... These are your people.
(applause and cheering)
These are your people.
Oh, good. Thank you.
And our time is up.
We'll be right back.
(laughter)
-Thank you. That was so...
-Do you ever get used
to the amount of joy you see on
peoples' faces when you walk by?
'Cause even in the building,
Oprah...
This is the craziest thing
that's ever happened to me.
Let me tell you now.
We're backstage.
I'm getting my makeup done,
we're walking.
Then Oprah just walks...
She doesn't come through,
like, the celebrity entrance.
No, she just walks
through the building,
just greeting everyone.
"Hello! Hello! Hello! Hello!"
But surely you realize
that you are causing chaos
everywhere you go.
(laughing):
No! No.
Actually, I love these moments.
I...
This happens to me quite often.
I'll run into someone who says,
"Oh, my God you don't know.
You don't know what this means."
And I said, "Yeah, I do.
"You came home from school.
-Your mom wasn't there."
-Yes. Yes.
"You were a latchkey kid,
you watched me at 4:00."
-Right.
-"So I raised you, right?"
-Yes. -They're like,
"Yes, you raised me!"
-(laughter)
-That's exactly what it is.
So, I-I feel like, um...
I feel rewarded by that.
I feel like,
I think I-I did a good...
lot a good job raising people.
I did.
-I think you did a great job.
-(applause and cheering)
-That's what I think.
-And...
But this is why...
Trevor, I knew it was time
to leave the show when people
who had come to the show,
then they had children,
and their children were now
having children
watching the show.
It's time to go.
You know, you say that,
but I honestly wonder
if you didn't leave too soon.
And here's why I say this.
You left the show,
but it feels like
we never got tired of Oprah.
I mean, we-we now are watching
you on SuperSoul Sundays.
-Oh, good.
-We're now seeing Oprah.
Do you... do you think
you just needed a break
-and to do something else?
-Well, you know what?
I do wish that th-there...
The only time I actually really
missed, missed,
missed it was 2016,
because I thought
for sure that--
speaking to the audience
every day,
'cause this is what
I missed the most. -Right.
-(applause and cheering)
-I missed having a discourse
with the audience every day,
and...
Because every day
after the show,
I would spend time
with the audience.
-Right. -'Cause for years,
I signed autographs.
And then I thought,
one day I didn't,
and I had so much more energy.
What do I really want to do?
I want to talk to the audience.
So the audience, ten years in,
became my biggest focus group.
-Oh, wow.
-Yes.
And so, we would talk
and talk and talk.
So I would not
have been surprised
by the election or anything,
because I would have been
talking to people
from all states, because...
You would have been
in touch with them.
-I would have been...
-That's really interesting.
It would have been
my direct connection,
and so, that's what I missed.
That... It feels like that's
the story of your life is,
you love to be in an environment
where you are in touch
with human beings.
That's what this book feels like
it's about--
The Path Made Clear:
Discovering Your Life's
Direction and Purpose.
You seem like someone
who's always had your path,
like, nailed down.
-Yeah, pretty clear.
-Yeah.
Pretty clear.
Wh... Like, where do you think
you got that from,
and why do you think
this book will help people
do the same thing?
Just like you being raised...
First of all,
-I love your book so much.
-Oh, thank you. Thank you.
I love your book so much.
-(applause and cheering)
-Thank you. -Yes.
Love your book so much,
and being raised
-by a strong grandmother...
-Yes.
who taught me to read, but what
I learned to read was the bible,
and grew up, you know...
In kindergarten...
When I went to kindergarten...
-Do you know the story of when
I went to kindergarten? -No.
I, uh, had been in Mississippi,
which was an apartheid state
-when I was born.
-Right, right, right.
And so, when I moved
to Milwaukee
and, uh, had just started
kindergarten, I walked in,
and all these little white kids
were doing their ABCs,
and I said,
"I know some big words."
And I wrote them all down
to my kindergarten teacher.
-Oh, wow.
-Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego,
-Nehemiah, Jeremiah.
-(laughter)
And I got myself out of
kindergarten the first day.
-So...
-That is hilarious.
Yes. So,
being grounded in something
-that I knew was bigger
than myself... -Yes.
is-is-is set the course for me
to understand
that there's always something
greater than you,
and that, no matter what,
you are going to be all right.
So that should be your mantra.
Look at wherever
you come from...
(cheering and applause)
Things are always working out
for you.
And when you have faith you know
that things always will.
The book really feels
like a conversation
with the reader
that does exactly that.
It talks to you about
the journeys and the steps
that you can take in life to get
you where you need to be.
What I enjoy
is you speak to people
-who are inspiring
all walks of life. -Yes.
-And what-what I... -Because
that's my favorite thing to do.
-That's what I've noticed.
-Yes, I love--
-You love being inspired by
people. -Whoo! I love it.
But you're Oprah.
But you're Oprah, though.
-No. But it's stimul... -Why did
you choose these people
in the book to inspire us
with their stories?
Because they're all people
-that I've been talking to
over the years -Right.
on SuperSoul Sunday,
and Master Classes--
-You. You're on page 169.
-I am.
Yes, you are. And, uh,
and a few more.
So they're all people
who've inspired me
because at this stage
in my life,
I only talk to who
I want to talk to, okay?
-WOMAN IN AUDIENCE: Yes! -So...
-(cheering and applause)
Are you...?
I really do.
And so, to be, to be surrounded
by people--
and this is the truth whether
you have a talk show or not,
whatever you're doing
in your life--
you need to surround yourself
with people
who are gonna stimulate,
inspire and lift you up,
who are gonna give you energy
and not take energy away
from you.
And if you're around people who
are taking energy away from you,
that's an energy drain and that
is the sign from your instinct
your inner voice,
your intuition,
to say, "Let them go."
-Wow. Wow.
-Yeah.
When you look
at successful people--
you have talked to everyone
in the world
-who is successful--
-Yeah. A lot of people.
what would you say is the one
common characteristic
that you find gets people
to where they want to go?
Um, the most important
question is--
People get to where
they want to go
-'cause they know where
they want to go. -Oh, wow.
And most people don't know
where they want to go.
Most people-- a lot of people--
are going,
and being driven by what
they think they should do,
what other people say
they should do,
what they have carried
in their mind for a long time
they should do.
But the most important question
you can ever ask yourself
-is what do I really want?
-Wow.
And the answer to that, once you
can establish for yourself
what the answer to that is,
and have everything you do,
every choice you make,
move you in the direction
-of what you say your vision is.
-Right.
Yeah. And when you do that,
the-the-the forces of life
rise up to meet you.
The reason why most people
have such chaotic lives
is because they're living
in chaos in their head.
And as soon as you get clear,
it clears up.
-You-you-you have...
-It clears up.
-You have this... -And I did
this book, you know why?
One of the reasons I did this
book because you know I have
all these wonderful girls
from South Africa who love you,
-Yes. Yes. -who say, "Oprah,
he's on the road.
Could you get us some tickets?
Could you get us...?"
Well, to give you context,
here's the thing.
So 12 years ago, you started
the Oprah Winfrey Leadership
Academy in South Africa,
which is, honestly, one of the
most amazing institutions,
-because it goes, it goes beyond
just a school. -Yes.
-It's an idea.
-Yeah.
You-you've gotten girls
in a country where,
-Thank you for saying that.
-for so long-- No, it really is.
It's an idea, where you've said
to these young black girls
who are powerful and empowered,
to be like,
"Hey, be the best you can be."
-Yeah.
-And you are creating leaders.
-Yeah. Yeah.
But what you've found,
and you speak about this,
is that there was a pressure
that came with that,
where they went,
"I went to Oprah's school,
-which means I have to be
everything. -Yes. Yeah.
But you only have to be yourself
because there's nobody else
in the world
who's quite like you.
And what your real job is to do,
is to come to the world
and understand that your job
is to figure out
-what it is you have to offer.
-Right.
Like, what you do every night
looks like a talk show,
but what you're offering us
is relief,
what you're offering us is a way
to see ourselves differently,
what you're offering us
is humor,
but what you're offering us is
a way in to see our culture,
and that is what you do.
And so it's bigger
than a talk show,
it's bigger
than just this moment
-with you and I sitting
in the chair, -Wow.
because what you are
broadcasting to the world
is this sort of essence
of yourself, you know?
Your purpose is greater
than this moment in this chair.
-You know that.
-Was there ever a moment
where you maybe
had the wrong idea
of what your purpose would be?
I know you speak a little bit
about it in the book.
But was there ever a moment
where you failed
and you're glad that you failed
because it put you
on the path that you were meant
to be on?
Well, you know,
we were just talking about this
during the c-commercial break.
It was actually a-a show
that I was doing
with skinheads and, you know,
white supremacists
where I thought I was showing
the world their vitriol
-and letting the world see that.
-Right.
And I recognize
they were actually using me,
they were using that platform
because I, at the time,
did not understand
-how powerful the platform was.
-Wow.
So, when I figured that out,
I literally said,
"I'm only gonna use my work,
-this platform
as a force for good." -Yes.
I will cause no harm.
-I will cause no harm.
-(cheering and applause)
When... Let me ask you this.
When you...
when you...
when you were demoted
from the news division...
-Oh, yeah.
-That's an interesting moment,
because, you know, in life
they always go, you know,
-"Fail, and then try again and
try again and try again." -Yeah.
But this is an interesting one,
because you technically failed
at the news division.
You were demoted
to the talk show.
-Yeah. -But the talk show
ended up being
-the greatest promotion
of your life. -The first day
I was on the talk show,
which was, like,
the Carvel ice cream man.
-Okay? It was not, like,
a big guest. -Yes.
It's a Carvel ice cream man
and his multi flavors.
-Okay.
-(laughter)
But I had been demoted
from the news
because I was too emotional.
I would get too engaged
in the stories.
-Interesting. -I would go...
Yes, I was too emotional.
And I was always
getting written up
for being too emotional
with the stories.
And, so, had I not been demoted,
I probably would have
for a long time continued
on that path,
because my father was like,
"They're paying you $25,000?
You better keep that job."
So I would have stayed
for all the wrong reasons
instead of taking what looked
like a failure in the moment
-and being demoted.
-Right.
And then the moment I sat down
on my first talk show,
I thought,
"I have come home to myself."
And that's what everybody
is looking for,
the path that allows you
to come home to yourself.
I feel like...
I feel like you're creating that
for others now,
because now we're seeing
Oprah Winfrey,
the executive producer.
We're seeing the OWN network.
We're seeing your work
with creators.
-David Oyelowo was on the show
the other day... -Yeah, yeah.
...talking about
his first opportunity to direct.
When you are creating
-or when you are helping others
to create... -Hmm.
...you have to take
a different position,
because it's not for you.
-It's for somebody else.
-Well, you know,
but the most wonderful thing,
I think,
that everybody-- and especially
if you've been able
to be blessed
and achieved as much as I have--
the great reward and joy
comes from being able
to lift other people up.
-Right.
-To-to look back
or reach back
and lift other people
to the highest level
of themselves.
'Cause that's really what
we're all looking for.
-Right.
-That's what I say in here,
that the reason why there is
common ground for all of us
is 'cause you want
the same thing I want.
And even in my position in life,
I'm still reaching
for what is the truest,
highest expression of myself
-as a human being.
-Wow.
That's the path
you're looking for.
And when you know that that's
what we're all looking for...
So, my job is...
I think I've found that,
and I continue to find it
by helping other people
to find that for themselves.
One of the ways
you're doing that
is by creating a docuseries
with Prince Harry
-about mental... about mental...
-Oh, what a good segue.
-(laughter)
-Ooh!
-Oh! -You can't peel back
the curtain, Oprah!
No, the man's got skills.
-The man's got skills.
-One of the things you're doing
is talking about mental health.
And I love how you-you've
called it mental fitness,
-because that's how we need
to think of it as people. -Yes.
Are we healthy in our minds?
You're working
with Prince Harry,
which is really exciting.
I'm going, what is it like
to work with royalty for him?
-Uh...
-(laughter)
(cheering and applause)
Good. That's good.
That's good. You got me.
You got me.
He is a great partner,
and I want everybody to know
that, first of all,
I don't do or engage in anything
unless I'm giving 100%.
He feels the same,
and so he is a great partner
in helping us decide what...
who we're gonna interview,
how it's gonna be interviewed,
what subjects
we're gonna be covering.
I've had, you know,
meetings with him.
We've sat down with our team,
and we're working together
on this
-as a real partnership,
so, yeah. -It's really...
-It's genuinely exciting.
-Yeah.
I mean,
everything you do blows up.
-Everything Oprah touches...
-Well, you know why it was
so important to me? This is why
it was so important to me.
Because I have a girls' school,
and, you know, these girls come
-from provinces all over
South Africa. -Yes. Yes.
When you're dealing with people
who come from lots of trauma,
-that trauma shows itself
in later life... -Mm-hmm.
...as depression sometimes,
as anxiety sometimes,
as mental health issues.
And there was a time
where I had five girls
in the hospital
at the same time...
-Wow.
-...with depression,
suicidal ideation,
all kinds of things.
So I became interested
in the subject of mental health
because I spent too many times
in a psych ward.
And because I recognize
that the-the impact of poverty
and the impact of trauma
in poverty really causes people
to carry that into their lives
unless it is processed
and unless they can come forward
in a way that releases it.
So, for me,
doing this mental health series
is a way of releasing
the shame--
helping people
to release the shame--
and the stinga from...
stigma from themselves.
'Cause there's almost nobody you
know that doesn't have somebody
in their family who's going
through some kind of difficulty.
Wh-When you speak about trauma--
is that one of the reasons
you were so drawn to
the Michael Jackson documentary?
Because I noticed
when you were-when you were
speaking about that,
it felt personal to you,
-it felt visceral.
But-but you got -Well...
-a lot of hate for doing that.
-Oh, so much haterat...
I haven't had that much
hateration since
I did "The Puppy Episode"
with Ellen. So...
-Are you serious? -Yes.
And you know what, I was...
I-I was saying this
the other day-- that I'm so glad
that when I did
"The Puppy Episode" for Ellen,
where Ellen came out,
and, uh, people just...
we had to take people
off the switchboard,
-'cause there was so much
hateration going on. -Wow.
'Cause that was before
there was, um, uh...
-Tweets.
-tweets and social media.
But, I'm... imagine
had that happened now...
-Imagine if that had
happened now -Right.
and you had social media.
So I had a lot of hateration.
But I also, when I first
saw that documentary,
I realized that a lot of people
are gonna get triggered.
-Are going to be triggered
by watching it. -Yes.
And that a lot of people
will not understand
what the pattern is.
'Cause I had done 217 shows
trying to get people
to understand
that it's not about one person.
That is about the pattern,
it is about the seduction.
And people call it molestation,
-but there is a big seducing
that goes on, -Right.
and the pattern
of that seducing.
And that was
important enough for me
-to take the hateration for it.
-Did-did you ever
waver in your beliefs when
the-the documentary director
-No, I have never wavered.
-came out and said there was
a timeline issue,
Michael Jackson didn't have
-the train station... -I have
not wavered. You know why
I have not wavered? Because
I've had girls at my school
who were sexually assaulted
and abused.
And I have never won a case.
And the reason
I have never won a case
is because when you put a girl
on the witness stand
and she can't remember
was it Thursday or Wednesday
-the-the... it's-it's
automatically discredited. -Wow.
And so, when you're
in the midst of trauma--
something t-terrible thing's
happening to you--
you may not remember
the exact time.
It's why, like, if I
hear a-hear a noise or something
at my house, I'll, like,
"Look at the time,
"'cause they're gonna ask
what time-what time was it.
Oh, my God, what time is it?"
So, so, if you can't remember
the day and the time
and the da-da, da-da,
everybody's like, "Well, okay."
-I guess it never happened.
-Guess it never happened.
"Oh, it was...
I said it was that hotel,
but it was that hotel..." "Oh,
it probably never happened."
So I've been through that,
so no.
Before I let you go, one last
question that I have to ask
that you've answered many times,
but I never know
if the answer will change:
is Oprah Winfrey
running for president?
(cheering, applause)
You don't even
want that to happen.
Why-why would you say that?
You don't even want that
to happen. You know, Gayle,
my dearest friend, uh, is...
I-I thought she was actually...
She was like, "I think you
should do it, you should do it
for the country." I said,
"You don't want that to happen.
'Cause I have
such a beautiful life."
-(Trevor laughs)
-I have such a beautiful life.
-Why would I want
to put myself in that? -Right.
-I have such a beautiful...
-WOMAN: Right, yeah.
-Right. Right?
-AUDIENCE: Yeah!
I have such a beautiful life.
I know my path,
and my path isn't that.
But whenever I decide
whoever I want to support,
I will get behind that person.
-We'll be excited to watch it.
-Excited. Thank you.
-Thank you so much for
being on the show. -Thank you.
The Path Made Clear
is available now.
Oprah Winfrey, everybody.